Hello friends in this video let us understand
what is programming and what is the need for programming languages.
So firstly let me ask you a question
Why do we need a language like English, Chinese, Arabic etc.?
Because when two people are interacting with each other
we need a medium to convey our thoughts
It should be understandable between these two people
For that we have languages.
And a language will have some sort of vocabulary and grammar
The vocabulary defines the subject, verb, objects, symbols etc.
Example Alan Cricket Play etc
The grammar defines how to use those vocabulary.
That is if I say Alan Cricket play
It does not have a particular meaning
It could be Alan played Cricket
Alan Plays Cricket
Alan will play cricket
Alan has been playing cricket
It could be anything like this.
So we need a Grammar to define the use of these words
Take an example : "Alan Plays Cricket" is a subject verb object pattern
that follows the correct grammar
But if we interchange these words, what will happen?
For example "plays Alan cricket" or "cricket Alan plays" etc.
It will be meaningless
So simply grammar defines the standard structure or pattern
to use the vocabulary
Here both are humans.
So they will understand the vocabulary and grammar of the English language
So there is no issue in sharing their thoughts.
But what if a human want to interact with the computer?
Here the computer won't understand these vocabulary and grammar
of the English language or any other language like English
Computer has its own language and it has its own vocabulary and grammar.
And that is known as the programming language.
Here the vocabularies are int, char, float, for, while
symbols like + - etc.
and the programming language grammar is something like "operand + operand"
that is when we add two numbers using + operator
The operator + should be between the operands
Example A + B
here + is the operator and A and B are the operands
and here + is surrounded by operands.
So the grammar is correct.
And if the grammar is incorrect the computer won't understand it.
For example if we write +AB or AB+
the computer won't understand it
The grammar should be correct.
So simply using native languages like English, Chinese
two people can interact with each other.
and using programming language, a human can interact with computers.
Now let us understand what is a program.
Here if first person wants second person to get the pencil and throw it away
person1 should provide a clear instruction to person2
This is known as a task.
and using this first  person gets a job done using second person
Similarly if a person wants to get a job done by a computer
he should provide a clear instruction in the computer known language.
For example to add two numbers A and B
He should give instructions like this
int a=10; int b= 20; int sum = a+b;
Here this step by step instructions is known as the program
so a collection of instructions that performs a specific task
is known as a computer program.
And to accomplish various tasks using computer
we need to write various programs
This process of designing and building an executable computer program
for accomplishing different tasks is known as Programming.
And who is a Programmer ?
The person who writes these programs is known as the computer programmer
so that's all about programming language and programming
In the next video we will understand why programming is so important.